So moving on to problem number three, a brick is being dropped from a high scaffold, what is its velocity
after four seconds?
How far does the brick just the brick fall during this time?
OK, so once again, we're just dropping a brick, right?
What is its velocity after four seconds?
How far does the brick fall during this time?
OK, so let's think about it like this.
We have so we're trying to find two things, of course.
Are we given the initial height of the object of the brick?
No.
Right.
So this is a good instance where we could just say that the initial height is zero.
Meters, and it's going to fall a certain amount and our final height is going to be our question mark.
OK, so what's this phone archiving information?
So we have zero meters for the height.
Let's.
Our final highlight, the final hit is what we're trying to find, it's asking how far does the brick
fall during this time?
Oh, no.
It doesn't look like that.
The brick is actually indicating that's hitting the ground.
OK, so it's not hitting the ground.
So it's going to be falling.
And now the brickies over here.
After the time span of four seconds, OK, all right, so what is the initial velocity?
Are we through on the break up?
Are we throw the brick brick down, know the initial velocity is going to be zero meters per second?
What is the final velocity?
Oh, that's actually what we're trying to find here.
What is the velocity after four seconds?
So we just have a nice little question mark right there.
What is the acceleration due to gravity?
By now, you should realize that whenever we're having these objects being dropped or if we are to be
throwing them up in the air, which we will do later on, the acceleration is going to be the acceleration
due to gravity, which is negative nine point eight meters per second squared by now.
I want you to actually make sure that you have this memorized going forward for these free falling objects.
The time, OK, so we are given a time of four seconds.
OK, so we have two things that we're trying to find here, we're trying to find our Wyeth and we're
trying to find our Veth, OK, so which one do we want to find first, Litsa?
What is the velocity after four seconds?
OK, so let's find out what our final velocity is.
So what we're going to do is we're going to say, hey, wherever we DCR Wyeth, we're going to say that
that's going to be a formula that we don't want to use.
So where do we have Wyeth?
Oh, we don't have Wyeth over here, but we have Wyeth right here now going to use that one.
We have Wyeth right there and I can use that one.
And coming through, we got Wyeth right there.
So to find our final velocity, we're going to use equation number three.
And what's nice about this, which I always love, is that we won't even need to have to solve for our
variable because it's already on the left hand side the equation by itself.
So we have our negative nine point eight times are for obviously this provides us no values, so we
don't need to plug that into the calculator.
Now we have our value, our value of three thirty nine point two metres per second, and that's our
final velocity.
Once again, the net negative indicate the idea that we're going downwards.
OK.
And I'm just going to get rid of our diagram right now.
Beautiful, beautiful drawing there.
So now let's get our why if so, if we're looking for a Y, if I'm just going to say I don't care about
Veth.
OK, so once again, we don't care about VIth.
Oh we got Veth right here.
I'm going to use this equation.
Do we have the F over here.
Oh yeah.
Yep.
We got the effort there so we're not going to use this equation and we have the F over here.
No we don't.
OK and we have Geoffrey here so we're not gonna use this equation.
Process of elimination once again helps us out, indicating to us that we're going to be using equation
number five to find our V our why f our final height and which is nice about this, is that we're we're
already isolated our variable, our y f so all we have to do is play this in calculator and we'll get
our answer.
OK, so once again, make sure that you wrote down the road and the equation correct and I think that
we're looking at here.
So let's plug this in.
We have this hour why I is zero.
I'm just looking over here and our initial velocity is zero times our Delta T, which is four plus or
one half negative.
Nine point he.
Times are four.
And don't forget to square that value is this T squared?
I'm not going to bother writing this in and we have zero times any number is going to equal to zero,
so all we have to do is plug in one half of negative nine point eight times four squared.
So we should be looking at this right now.
We're expecting to get a negative value right now.
Right, because a positive times, a negative times, a positive will result in a negative value.
And when we plug this in, we'll get negative seventy eight point four metres, always plug the same
to the calculator.
Don't assume that you're just going to get this answer, OK?
And that's that.